Add Log Blog (#6711)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2025/opentelemetry-logging-and-you.md

---

> title: Opentelemetry Logging and You

Reviewer: nit 
```suggestion
title: OpenTelemetry Logging and You
```

linkTitle: OTel Logging # Mandatory, make sure that your short title.
date: 2025-04-16 # Put the current date, we will keep the date updated until your PR is merged
author:
  >- # If you have only one author, then add the single name on this line in quotes.

>   [Austin Parker](https://github.com/austinlparker) (OpenTelemetry)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  [Austin Parker](https://github.com/austinlparker) (Honeycomb)
```

I think it supposed to be a company name :wink:

>   [Austin Parker](https://github.com/austinlparker) (OpenTelemetry)

Author: ```suggestion
  [Austin Parker](https://github.com/austinlparker) (honeycomb.io)
```

> issue: the issue ID for this blog post # TODO: See https://opentelemetry.io/docs/contributing/blog/ for details

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> sig: Logging # TODO: add the name of the SIG that sponsors this blog post

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sig: Logs
```

---

If you’ve been following OpenTelemetry for a while, you’ve probably heard a lot

> about logs. Logging bridges, Logging APIs, Events, you name it, we’ve talked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
about logs. Log bridges, Logs API, Events, you name it, we’ve talked
```

Maybe also add references?
- https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/glossary/#log-appender--bridge
- https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/api/
- https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/glossary/#event

about it. This blog post is intended to be a discussion of the rationale and
current design direction of logging in OpenTelemetry.

## Definitions

Let’s get started with a basic definition of how OpenTelemetry thinks about

> logs. Broadly, logs are any telemetry that is emitted through a LoggerProvider,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
logs. Broadly, log records are any telemetry that is emitted through a `Logger`,
```

Author: I thought it was still LoggerProvider?

Reviewer 2: Maybe what you have written is actually OK. LoggerProvider returns a Logger. Logger is used to emit log records (and events). Feel free to resolve my comment if you find the current wording correct.

> and are created by calling the Logging API. There are two ways we intend for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and are created by calling the Logs API. There are two ways we intend for
```

users to do this –

> - Use the logging API as a sink for existing loggers (sending existing logs to
>   the OpenTelemetry SDK)

Reviewer 2: Users may use different implementation of OTel Logs API (that are not compliant with OTel Logs SDK)

```suggestion
- Use the Logs API as a sink for existing loggers (sending existing logs to
  OpenTelemetry)
```

> - Use the logging API to emit events, our vision of a structured logging format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the Logs API to emit events or log records.
```

I think that we can reference this event definition (https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/glossary/#event). Moreover, users (and instrumentations) can also emit log records that are not events. More:
- https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/issues/4234

Regardless of the type of log, there is one thing they all have in common – logs
are part of the OpenTelemetry Context. This means that logs will have a
reference to the context of the transaction or request that they were emitted
under, irrespective of type or source. This is a fundamental part of the
OpenTelemetry data model – all of your telemetry must be linked, contextually,

> to other telemetry.

Reviewer 2: > Regardless of the type of log, there is one thing they all have in common – logs
are part of the OpenTelemetry Context.

This sentence seems misleading to me. Logs can have the context, but log is not part of the context.

> This means that logs will have a
reference to the context of the transaction or request that they were emitted
under, irrespective of type or source. 

Maybe: "This means that log record can share the same context as other signals."

> This is a fundamental part of the
OpenTelemetry data model – all of your telemetry must be linked, contextually,
to other telemetry.

Maybe replace "linked, contextually," with "contextually correlated"?

With that said, what’s the distinction between a log and an event? It is rather
straightforward – events are logs that

> [OpenTelemetry can make guarantees about](docs/specs/otel/logs/data-model.md#events).

Reviewer 2: What guarantees?  How does it make a guarantee? This just a convention and nothing prevent breaking the convention.

Author: I mean, the same guarantee that says otel instrumentations respect semconv? It's an implicit guarantee.

Reviewer 2: Actually chatgpt says that "make guarantee" is informal. I have found it in any dictionary 5 minutes. But I trust your English and for sure not mine

Reviewer 2: ### Is "to make guarantee about" correct?

The phrase **"to make guarantee about"** is not correct. Here are more natural alternatives:

#### 1. `make a guarantee that`

Use this when specifying what is being guaranteed.

> The company **made a guarantee that** the product would last for 10 years.

#### 2. `give a guarantee about`

Use this when referring to the subject or topic of the guarantee.

> They **gave a guarantee about** the safety of the new system.

#### 3. `guarantee` (as a verb)

This is often the most natural and direct form.

> They **guaranteed** the accuracy of the results.

An Event has a mandatory name and a structure that is defined via a schema,
similar to how semantic conventions are defined today. Some people may refer to,

> or think of, these as ‘structured logs’ and it wouldn’t be wrong. We are using

Reviewer 2: Structured logging is something different. Log records are already structured logs. The difference is that events are supposed to follow some schema (well-known structure).

the word event because it most clearly describes what an event is – something
that happens, without a duration, and can be named.

> **We believe that all logs should be events**, or at least the overwhelming
> majority of them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**We believe that most log records should be events.**
```

particularly detailed schema, after all? A key distinction between them is that
**spans have durations**. Events make no guarantees or claims about duration or
time; They could represent a truly instantaneous occurrence, or the result of
minutes or hours of computation. The other big difference is that **spans have
an explicit hierarchy**. A span is part of a trace that contains many spans. A
span with no children is, in and of itself, a complete trace. Events do not have
this guarantee.

Logs and Metrics differ in more clearly conceptual ways – a metric is a
numerical series of values across time. While it’s possible to convert logs into
metrics, this is downstream of the definition of the telemetry itself.

Fundamentally, OpenTelemetry is built on the concept that all signals are
interpreted together, rather than separately. Events can be considered to be a
part of the span that they were emitted under, and can be used to represent
everything from an exception, to security data, to an access log, to timing
information, and much more. Events are not only useful in the presence of a
span, but if they’re emitted with a span context, they can reasonably be

> interpreted as contained within the span.

Reviewer: > Events are not only useful in the presence of a
span, but if they’re emitted with a span context, they can reasonably be
interpreted as contained within the span.

Just some wordsmithing comment: it sounds like both parts separated with 'but' talk about the same - events being useful along with a span, was it the intention?

## How will we refer to these?

If there’s anything I can personally say that I’ve learned over the last seven
years of OpenTelemetry, it’s that people have very strong opinions about what
things should be named – especially when it comes to logging. It is impossible
for us to satisfy everyone’s desires or existing mental expectations when it
comes to the logging field. Thus, we’ll strive to use the nomenclature spelled
out in this post.

**Logs are anything you send through a Logging Provider, and events are a
special type of logs. Not all logs are events, but all events are logs.**

Semantic convention and instrumentation authors should use events. Logs should
be limited to legacy migrations of existing telemetry systems to OpenTelemetry,
or when no other possible signal can be applied.

> ## Comments?

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could also add a reference to https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/?

---
title: OpenTelemetry Logging and You
linkTitle: OTel Logging
date: 2025-04-16
author: >-
  [Austin Parker](https://github.com/austinlparker) (honeycomb.io)
sig: Logs
---

If you’ve been following OpenTelemetry for a while, you’ve probably heard a lot
about logs. [Log bridges](/docs/specs/otel/glossary/#log-appender--bridge),
[Logs API](/docs/specs/otel/logs/api), [Events](/docs/concepts/glossary/#event),
you name it, we’ve talked about it. This blog post is intended to be a
discussion of the rationale and current design direction of logging in
OpenTelemetry.

## Definitions

Let’s get started with a basic definition of how OpenTelemetry thinks about

> logs. Broadly, logs are any telemetry that is emitted through a LoggerProvider,

Reviewer 3: LoggerProvider feels like an overly technical word for this post, maybe just "logs are any telemetry that is emitted through the Logs API"? although that sounds tautological

[OpenTelemetry can make guarantees about](/docs/specs/otel/logs/data-model/#events).
An Event has a mandatory name and a structure that is defined via a schema,
similar to how semantic conventions are defined today. While all log records in
OpenTelemetry are structured, only Events have this defined schema. We are using
the word event because it most clearly describes what an event is – something
that happens, without a duration, and can be named.

**We believe that most log records should be events.**

## How is this different from other signals?

Logs and Spans are often thought of as being conceptual twins, especially when
you start talking about events. What is a span other than an event with a
particularly detailed schema, after all? A key distinction between them is that
**spans have durations**. Events make no guarantees or claims about duration or
time; They could represent a truly instantaneous occurrence, or the result of
minutes or hours of computation. The other big difference is that **spans have
an explicit hierarchy**. A span is part of a trace that contains many spans. A
span with no children is, in and of itself, a complete trace. Events do not have

> this guarantee.

Reviewer 3: this was a bit confusing to me

> A span with no children is, in and of itself, a complete trace.

A span with no children and no parent?

> Events do not have this guarantee.

it wasn't clear what guarantee?

does it help to just say that spans can have children?

Logs and Metrics differ in more clearly conceptual ways – a metric is a
numerical series of values across time. While it’s possible to convert logs into
metrics, this is downstream of the definition of the telemetry itself.

Fundamentally, OpenTelemetry is built on the concept that all signals are
interpreted together, rather than separately. Events can be considered to be a
part of the span that they were emitted under, and can be used to represent
everything from an exception, to security data, to an access log, to timing

> information, and much more. This doesn't mean that Events aren't useful on their

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
information, and much more. This doesn't mean that events aren't useful on their
```

for each click or tap on a screen that aren't part of a span -- but it does mean
that if an event takes place _during_ a span, it can be thought of as 'part of'
the span.

## How will we refer to these?

If there’s anything I can personally say that I’ve learned over the last seven
years of OpenTelemetry, it’s that people have very strong opinions about what
things should be named – especially when it comes to logging. It is impossible
for us to satisfy everyone’s desires or existing mental expectations when it
comes to the logging field. Thus, we’ll strive to use the nomenclature spelled
out in this post.

**Logs are anything you send through a Logging Provider, and events are a
special type of logs. Not all logs are events, but all events are logs.**

Semantic convention and instrumentation authors should use events. Logs should
be limited to bridging existing logging libraries to OpenTelemetry, or when no
other possible signal can be applied. For more, please refer to the
[Logs Specification](/docs/specs/otel/logs).

## Comments?

We’ve opened a
[GitHub issue to discuss this post](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/issues/2679),

> we’d love your feedback.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and we’d love your feedback.
```
